Week One
========

Day One
-------
It felt to me like they felt comfortable asking questions, and I left the first day getting across what I wanted to about the course. There were no major logistical or technical hiccups, and I got through all of the content that I wanted to, i.e. going through the syllabus, talking a bit about my teaching philosophy, doing ice breakers, etc. I think I raced through some of the syllabus a bit too much, and should have taken more of a collaborative approach. A few times I paused and had students read sections of the syllabus aloud, and I plan on doing that more in the Thursday section. That to me felt like it included the class more. I also think I could’ve structured the ice breakers a little bit more, to go further in depth. My hope is that when we are in person as a whole class to spend ~10 minutes at the start of each class getting to know each other, I was a bit nervous about getting through the syllabus so I raced through the intros. I’ve been in classes where intros took like 45+ minutes and was nervous about that. 10 of my students were early to class. I asked students to optionally share what they were nervous about for the class and most of them were open to sharing. They had a lot of similar fears which I think did make them feel more together and achieved what I hoped to with that practice. It surprised me that they were open to sharing and being vulnerable from day one. I did some small group sharing. I did my favorite practice, which is presenting something and just asking question. What do you think? What do you see? What might be going on? – I encouraged questions in response to my questions, and emphasized these weren’t questions seeking right answers but exploratory questions asking “what is possible?” – this is always how I’ve learned.

Day Two
-------
I don't think the second day the students were quite as engaged. I felt more self-aware about just how much I was talking when going through the syllabus, and they didn't ask very many questions. When I prompted them with questions or asked for volunteers they were much more leery than my Tuesday students. I'm guessing it was just luck of the draw, or maybe they were more burnt out later in the week. If we end up having to do anything similar again later in the semester I want to rotate who comes what day to make it more equitable. Other than that I ran things rather similarly. Overall my takeaways are that I feel like I accomplished my goals of week one which is communicating my teaching values to my students and making the course seem meaningful and achievable. I am excited to read what they share as their best/worst experiences with text in the assignment due this weekend. 
