Week Five
=========

It's kind of hard to believe it's already week five, and that I'm in the middle of grading unit 1 papers. So far, I'm very happy with how my student's papers have turned out -- I don't think this is so much due to anything in particular that I Have done as a teacher, more that I ended up with a motivated section of students who are doing their best. I will admit that I'm learning more and more that I don't know if teaching is a sustainable enterprise for me. I'm only teaching 1 section, and it's supposed to be a 10hr/week commitment. I am spending much more than 10 hours, between the 2.5 hours of class time, lesson planning, office hours, grading papers, responding to student emails. That's fine, I'm not surprised since it's new that I'm taking things slow. What's nervy is that most of the pedagogical practices that we're learning about in 690 seem to ask more of the instructor, or at least, run that risk, and at the ends of the day I don't see teaching as my profession. Especially not composition -- maybe I shouldn't be that honest, but I think 99.9% of fiction writers in academia would quit if they sold enough books to be able to. That's the sense I get from conversations I've had going back 5+ years to when I started entering academic spaces in creative writing. And so for me as I gain experience teaching I'm comparing the energy it takes from me to give my students the best version of me (and they deserve nothing but the vest of an instructor) and the pay I might get teaching and at least at this juncture I think this is an experience in me learning this isn't for me. So I'm doing my best to make these semesters the best experience for my students that I can. Hopefully in the future we have a better system, so students are learning composition in classrooms with instructors dedicated to that practice, and appropriately compensated, rather than grad students in other disciplines who every week are trying to understand what that purpose is. I'll admit teaching a class with course outcomes in direct conflict with what we are learning in the pedagogy class that is supposed to help us improve as teachers is kind of frustrating. In the classroom I’m having a great time, I love being with my students and working with them. But I’m writing less than last year, and while I know that’s my own fault, I know this class and teaching is taking a lot of that energy, and so I’m reflecting on that as I plan my life moving forward.
