Week Nine
=========

It is surreal that we are already more than halfway through the semester. One of the things I'm starting to think about, as I read my students unit two papers, is how to properly reflect on thier growth. Most of my experience as an educator comes in math and computer science, subjects that are very concrete in as a teacher my ability to see student progression. In this class, it kind of feels like the students that came in prepared are doing well, and everyone has produced things we hadn't before the semester, but that progression feels murkier to me than it does in STEM. This isn't a criticism, just an observation that means I need to think critically about how I want my students to look back at the end of their semester and say, "I've grown." -- because in my math classes it was so concrete, needing to be ready for the material in the next class. And there's some of that with 101 leading into 102, but not to the same extent.

What I fall back on is a strong sense that writing is useful in understanding the world, in that we often don't really know what we think until we get out of our heads somehow..."compose ourselves” one way or another, not necessarily in alphabetic text. And I see this with my students, realizing that they can develop and articulate complex thoughts about things in ways they didn't necessarily believe. I emphasize how this skill is useful no matter their future. What I hope unit three brings for them is another level of that, as today’s society is so filled with conflict, I think (and we discussed this day one of the unit) we need to learn these argumentative skills down pat, but also how to be generous, how to command ourselves in different contexts to be effective communicators.

The reality of the world is that our students will need to engage productively with people who they disagree with, and I hope I can inculcate in them the skills to do that. Some of that is courage, and a willingness to draw the line, but the flip side of that is empathy and generosity. It’s not an easy task, but to me that’s why argument is always taught in freshman composition; college is about leaving home, and experiencing the discomfort of the world, and growing from that. We need to equip our students to reckon with it and grow. 

