Week Three / Reflection Two
============================

This is reflection two for class, but it's reflecting at the end of week three. It's crazy to think that my students are already turning in rough drafts of their first paper and will be turning in final drafts next weekend. The A/B classes week one followed by async week two were bumpy, it felt a lot better to have everyone in the room this week. I'm starting to get the vibe of the class, the group dynamics, and feel like I'm building an identity as a teacher. I got pretty passionate making a point talking about essay structure being organic, and based on their ideas and thoughts and not based on formulas or what they wanted teachers to read, and felt like either they were terrified or getting what I was saying or both. I really tried to bring home the point that I want their voices to shine, and that composition, at least in 101 is about them developing a writing voice that is like a slightly polished version of how they speak and communicate the rest of the time. Not polished as in more formal, just like, clarified, revised, etc. I love writing because I'm a messy person by nature and writing gives me do-overs and a chance to throw all of my ideas at the wall, see what sticks, and then do it again until I have something I really like. It's hard to do that in other contexts, and I tried to get that across.

I am working on realizing that I need to communicate some logistical things like homework, readings, more clearly than I have been previously. I also am I think paying a bit too much attention to the class, and am prioritizing teaching so heavily I'm losing track of some of my other responsibilities. But I like that responsibility, helping guide our little classroom community to learn together as a group. I'm curious to see how the rough drafts and peer review workshops go, but I'm optimistic, as the number of choices for the visual analysis makes me think students are excited about their image, or at least excited enough to do the assignmnent. I am a little bit stressed about some of the students that are falling behind, because I don't do well myself when I'm in situations like that. I need to not project my anxiety onto those students, and do my best to support them and help build structure so they can get caught up in class. 
