Week Eleven
===========

Given I was away from the classroom last week, and it was also Fall Break the week before, I’ve only taught two class sessions since the last reflection. What I’m thinking about right now is ownership, responsibility, and control. This past week, dealing with an illness and death in the family, I had to step back from worrying about my students -- not in an irresponsible way -- in that I still emailed them that I would be away, gave them some online content, and we are collaborating on a shift in the schedule after missing class, but stepping back was really hard. I’ve also had a few students withdraw/drop the class late, and it’s hard to not feel like that was a failure on my part, though I do try to see my students as adults and equals, at the same time I feel responsible as their teacher, and when something like that happens, it’s hard for me not to dwell on what I could’ve done to improve things. This is simply how I think about things, focusing on what is in my control, what levers I have access to, which means when I have to step back and trust others it can be difficult. Coming back to class today, it does seem like my students are okay, in terms of their unit 3 papers. They have busy lives that have carried on in my absence, and they’ve focused on their other classes. This has been a good learning moment, because I’ve been reminded of how in the scheme of things students are able to take care of themselves.

In terms of the bigger picture, I’m catching up on finishing grading student papers, as that was what I was working on when I had to leave last week. With the time left in the semester narrowing, I’m reflecting on what my students might take away from the class when it’s over. I’ll be frank in that I don’t see marked improvement from Unit 1 to Unit 2 in many students -- overall, most of the students will end up getting close to the same grade on both papers. Maybe that’s cause for a reevaluation of my pedagogy. They should be building skills, and thus improving from unit to unit. For all the problems that grades have, it would be satisfying to be able to leave the semester with some kind of way to say, “here’s where we were, here’s where we are” -- without it just being, we did a bunch of stuff. To me, writing a bunch of papers is a waste of time if the students forget about it the moment the semester is over, if they don’t retain new abilities and skills they can use moving forward. But how do we evaluate whether that’s happening?
