Week Seven
==========

The last few weeks have been somewhat uneventful, as unit 2 is not significantly different than unit 1, it's just that we're teaching about how to analyze alphabetic text instead of visual imagery. I definitely think my teaching style may be a little bit too loose -- some teachers i've been talking to go through more kind of like, minutae and concrete examples in class, whereas I like to let them do that in the reading and then we break down the examples and talk about the ideas and lessons, the patterns in class. One particular anxiety I have going into this paper is that they will write too much summary and not enough analysis, we'll see how it turns out. Bigger picture, I think I've settled from a lot of the negativity I had last post, but I think that was rooted in the fact that grading is the activity that makes me dislike teaching the most. This is for a few reasons: it's repetitive, but not in a way where I can zone out. It's highly impactful, so I have to still be very focused and careful. It also feels somewhat arbitrary and frustrating, and in the end it feels like the students just look at the number and move on. This makes me think, pedagogically, that it's a sign I need to evaluate the model. If the evaluation of student work is producing negative emotion, I need to reexamine why that is, but also why I've set up the class in that way, and at what level I can change things to prevent that. I don't think it's something that just needs to be accepted. 
  
That being said, I do thing this class has made me realize I simply do not have the mindset/worldview necessary to be a composition instructor in 2021. I frankly find it embarrassing that people would feel comfortable publishing academic papers that openly admit that they want to influence their students political views. To me this isn't the role of education, which is to give students skills to think for themselves. This seems to have been decided to be a problematic point of view. I'm curious if this is the broad consensus in composition or just what we're reading in this class. The question is, if I give a student whose political views I disagree with better skills with which to express her arguments, without changing her mind about her politics, have I succeeded or failed as a composition instructor, according to current pedagogical standards? 
