Week Thirteen
==============

It’s strange that this is the last reflection. I’m thinking, as my students have caught up from my absence, and in 690 we conclude the semester with planning how we’re going to teach next semester, a lot about what I want to carry with me from this experience as a learner. A reason why I came to Southern Miss in the first place was the opportunity to teach as an instructor of record in a master’s program, to see if it was something I’d enjoy -- and at times I have greatly enjoyed it. Other times, I’ve felt frustrated, whether due to poor attendance, poor effort on assignment, or even strong performance on assignments, which can be frustrating when it feels fixed, like these students were going to do their thing the same no matter who got up there and said some stuff. 

Part of what I want to emphasize when I revise my materials for the spring is to not have that same feeling. My goal is for the syllabus, my assignments, my prompts, etc. to better convey myself (and thus, hopefully, to my students) what there’s there, so that at the end of the semester when they’re gathering their portfolios, I’ll feel a bit clearer in that we’ve progressed toward something; because this semester, I still can’t shake the fact that I feel like some of the students came into 101 with these rhetorical skills, writing skills, study skills already well developed, and some didn’t, and that basic fact didn’t really change at the end of the semester -- what I hope is that a better course design can serve all the students better, because regardless of what skills, they come in with, to me, this class has become about ideas, and all of my students have interesting ideas, and how to communicate them, and charting how to improve our ability to communicate those ideas to who we want to tell them to. 

To that end, I’m planning on making collaboration and communication central to the course in the Spring. I want to demystify writing as so separate from the communication our students do constantly -- talking, texting, etc. because I hear them telling stories to their friends before class with casual eloquence they shy away from in their essays -- how do I encourage them to kick that shyness? That’s the question. I only have one semester more of teaching, with no plans further, but it’ll be cool to see if I can make some progress. 
